gold jewels diamonds everywhere God Save
the King but in all the pageantry of the
king's coronation one significant peace
was missing from Queen Camillus crowd
which featured dazzling stones for sure
but not the famous kohanuar Diamond the
105 carat jewel in the crown made for
Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother for a
coronation in 1937 a centerpiece of the
crown jewels since the 19th century
during British colonial rule of the
Indian subcontinent the earliest records
of the corner Diamond place it here in
Delhi in the jewels-studded Peacock
Throne of the Mughal Empire for
centuries the treasured gem was passed
around and as The Story Goes brought
Calamity with it but when Buckingham
Palace announced earlier this year that
Queen Camilla would not Don the koenoor
it was less about a curse than to
sidestep controversy and growing demands
for Britain to give it up you've still
woken up and be working it's it's dark
magic again who really owns the Kohinoor
is a riddle that reaches back centuries
but understanding where it is now is a
journey that starts here in India
passing through Mughal Persian and
Afghan Empires and the first Maharaja of
the Sikh Empire who received it as a
gift this was documented this then this
they made it Sandeep Singh sukher chakia
a lawyer here claims to be a descendant
and says his family is pursuing the
Kohinoor to fulfill the maharaja's dying
wish
this matter is between two royal
families
two royal families what makes the claim
of your family more legitimate the
britishers have taken it illegally so
this doesn't need any legal action it's
just a polite reminder that you are the
custodian of this
diamond
right and you should give it back to us
but after Britain's East India a company
annexed Punjab in 1849 the young
Maharaja then signed a treaty that
gifted the jewel to Queen Victoria
kohanur meaning mountain of light became
a symbol of Empire and in the sense the
Korean symbolizes that it's one in one
tiny little package as big as an egg is
all the hurt or the feeling of of loss
or the feeling of theft which many
Indians now feel about the colonial
period giving back the co-enure is
but it's louder now with India India's
rise as a global power
you have been as determined as vinod
D'Souza it's not possible to reply to
every letter sent to the queen or he's
written 101 physical letters to
Buckingham Palace and to the queen
herself this is my first letter which
was sent to the queen and she replied in
2009 yeah you got a reply yeah yeah
she holds it on behalf of the nation and
that they can't do anything about it
he says he will keep writing to King
Charles until the kohenur is in its
rightful place do you think it'll come
back
uh I know it's an impossible task but uh
I am not not yet given it up because
I've made it as a passion till I'm alive
on this Earth how far are you and your
family willing to go to get the
Diamondback after me my son is going to
take care of it and after him his son is
going to take care of it it will be
continued until it is achieved
we will not rest
until our target has met
thanks for watching our YouTube channel
follow today's top stories and breaking
news by downloading the NBC News app